[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: So I've alluded to this already.
Let's try to be more articulate about
the two major problems of callback hell.
We saw the symptoms of them.
The symptoms of callback hell where that
managing that times the complexity was
rather awful.
It's very manual,
it's very hard coded, hard to do.
But there's something
deeper even than that.
So to try to articulate
those two problems,
I'm gonna have to take some conceptual
steps back a little further away
from the code.
>> Kyle: First,
I wanna talk to you about a principle
called inversion of control.
By the way if you do a search for
inversion of control you
gonna get lots of different
answers in different software domains
as to what inversion of control means.
So try not to confuse all those different
overloaded definitions with the one
that I'm going to give you here.
What I'm gonna give you here is
the inversion of control means.
There's part of my program that
I'm in control of executing.
And then, there's another portion of my
code that I'm not in control of executing.
And the way that we express that is to
take the first half of my program that
executes now and the second half of my
code that executes in the callback, and
when I give that call
back to somebody else.
That's what inverts the control and
it puts them in control of when and
in what manner to execute
the second half of my program.
That's all and
only what I mean by inversion of control.
I'm going to assert to you that this is
one of the two evils of callback hell,
this notion of inversion of control.
So let's go back to this
fundamental setTimeout.
There's a line 1 and a line 2, those
represent the first half of our program,
lines three and four represent
the second half of our program.
We are in control of lines 1 and
2, they're happening now.
We are observing them happening now,
we are in control of them.
Lines 3 and 4 are going to happen
at some unspecified later time and
we are completely not in control
of how those lines, how and
when those lines get executed.
We have given that control
over to someone else,
in this case it's the timeout utility.
It is entirely in control of when and
if this ever even gets executed.
Now, with a set timeout that's a built
in JavaScript engine facility and
even though there's some weirdness
around timers we can all probably say
we don't worry too much we don't
worry we don't have a trust issue.
Around the time or not calling the call
back or doing something weird.
So let me give you a slightly
different scenario.
What if it's not the built in engine?
What if it's some other utility,
maybe even a utility that comes to
you by way of a third party library.
Let me give you a scenario set
this up because I like to teach to
silly metaphors and scenarios and things.
So let's imagine that you are tasked with
building an e-commerce engine for
your company.
Your company sells high end
expensive TVs to celebrities.
$10,000 TVs to celebrities.
Your task of building the e-commerce
site that sells those to people.
So you go through all the work of making
this e-commerce site all the cart and
all that other stuff.
And the very last step of the e-commerce
checkout, right is the person is clicking
the checkout button you have a third
party utility like an omniture or
something like that.
They provided you some utility called
Track Checkout which you need to call with
the details, the order details And
they will track that in the analytics so
that your marketing folks
know what's happening and
your product folks know what's happening.
They're gonna track that
purchase info asynchronously,
and then they're gonna call your call
back to let you know that it's time for
you to go ahead and charge the customer's
credit card and print the thank you page.
So it's the last step of the puzzle.
Everything seems great you're right
this code is pretty straightforward,
the API makes sense.
I passed in this callback,
you test it against their test bed and
everything works great.
So you go live and day one, celebrity
start buying your awesome $10,000 TVs and
everybody from the CEO all the way
down to you is happy at the company.
So we fast forward in
the scenario six months.
One morning before work, you're sitting in
a coffee shop casually sipping on a latte,
and you get a call from your boss.
And when you pick up,
your boss is not usual casual self.
Complete panic can barely
forms full sentences.
Says there's a major crisis,
huge PR problem.
George Clooney tried to
buy a TV on our site and
his credit card was charged five times for
the same TV and
then he tweeted about it and now a bunch
of people are complaining about our
side of all this huge PR nightmare,
you got to rush into work right now.
Your head spinning you don't even
remember writing this code but
you're rushing to work in your loses.
Well, they've refunded his credit card but
we still have this huge PR
nightmare that we are working through but
as engineers we've been told we have to
figure out how this happened and
they sure it never happens again.
Sound familiar to you.
You've probably had your
own version of a fire
that you get told you have to make
sure this never happens again.
Sorry for your PTSD,
if I'm triggering memories for you.
But we can identify with this
because this is our software works,
works great until there's some huge fire
and then all of a sudden our eyes are open
to a set of problems that we
didn't even know existed or
maybe we thought existed but we really
hoped we'd never run into and then we did.
In this case, you didn't even
realize there was a problem.
There's no obvious clear
case of what the problem is.
You don't even remember
writing the code but
you go pouring over your code that
after you're looking through stuff,
you arrive at this part of your code, you
see that's the only place where we charge
the customer's credit card and
you turn a check.
Could you maybe of like click the button
five times that you already have code in
there to fix that and
like what could possibly be the problem?
You arrive eventually at the conclusion
that there's no other possible way for
the credit card to have been
charged five times other than for
the truck checkout utility to have
called your call back five times.
It's the only logical conclusion.
You scour their documentation,
there's not a single mention of them
calling your call back multiple times.
So you call it Customer Support.
You say, I got this huge PR issue,
I need you to help me out.
Seems like this callback has
been called multiple times and
I don't see any party or documentation.
Well, the support representative
is similarly surprised,
scours their documentation,
never heard of it, got no idea.
So we'll escalate it,
talk to your support and
we'll get back with you
with the resolution.
You've got nothing else to do, so you go
over the day, come back the next morning
and in your email first thing, you have
this long email, this long detailed email,
is kinda like when a company
has a security breach and
they put out their blog post that
shows how everything happened.
They're like, at 9:02, we discovered this
and at 9:18 we shut this off Is this big
long email describing everything, but
what it boils down to as they say this.
Some of our engineers working on
an experimental branch of the code,
where they were going to try to call
your callback, and if they didn't
hear a successful return value from your
callback, they would try once per second
for five seconds and then eventually
fail out, timeout after five seconds.
Now, this was experimental code.
It was never supposed to go live, but
there was a breakdown in our process and
it accidentally went live.
It was only live for
five minutes before we rolled it back,
but it just happened to be the five
minutes that your site got caught in it.
We've checked all of our processes,
we've implemented all this stuff, and
we promise you this will
never happen again.
That's the real solution, you print out
that email you take it your boss, you're
like, this is what we got, they say it
was their fault they called or callback.
Your boss looks at you and it's at this
point of the story that I want to ask you,
what are the chances that your
bosses response is gonna be,
what sounds good to me?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle: I would say approximately zero.
Because at this point what has
been exposed about your system is
something you didn't even realize before.
You did not realize that there was a trust
point when you passed in a callback.
When you passed in a callback you
are trusting that that callback will be
not called too many times or
too few times or
whatever so they think well what I got to
do the fix is because your boss to me like
you've got to make sure that
can never happen again.
Well, the light bulb goes off in your head
and you say, I'm brilliant, I got an idea.
I'll setup a Boolean flag.
It'll start out as false.
First time it goes through
I'll flip it to true, and
I'll make sure that that darned thing
no matter how many times they call it,
I'll only ever charge
the credit card once.
Feel pretty good about yourself.
You're like, this is awesome.
So you check in that code,
you produce a test case for this.
You go to the QA department.
Now, I'm about to bash on a QA department,
but it's lovingly, so
I apologize if you're in QA.
Everybody loves QA.
We love to hate them, but
we need QA, we need you.
But you got to QA department
I got this fixed for the bug,
here's the reproduced case,
blah, blah blah.
And then, that QA person does
what they always annoyingly do.
They ask you that question
that didn't even occur to you,
you didn't want them to ask.
Well, what about if they
never call our callback?
Do we have any code in there for that?
No [LAUGH], so
now you're starting to panic like, no,
I don't have a solution for
that problem but
I guess I could set up some kind
of time out for that or whatever.
And then, he goes on he says what about
all the other places in our code that we
use callbacks.
Do we have fixes for all of this and
all of those places?
And you get that blank
stare on your face and
you're like, maybe I can slowly back away
and pretend I did not hear him say it.
Maybe I just can pretend
I didn't hear any of this
because all of a sudden what's been
exposed is how deep this rabbit hole goes.
The trust issues that we're involved in
passing callback the inversion of control
trust issues we were trusting that when we
pass a callback to some other utility and
by the way it doesn't have
to be a third party utility,
it could be somewhere else in your same
program even stuff that you wrote.
But we pass it in and we trust that it
won't call too early, not too late,
not too many times not too few times
won't lose out on any of the context it
needs to pass and won't swallow any
errors that may have occurred and
actually the list is goes on and
on and on.
These are all things that you
have been implicitly trusting
every single time you've ever
passed a callback anywhere in
any JavaScript program
you've ever written.
Until this moment, most of you have
probably never asked the question,
what happens if this trust falls apart?
It's interesting to me that developers are
actually pretty good at understanding why
it's important to have that trust but
verify thing with what's passed in.
Like, when you have a function that's
supposed to add two numbers, and
you assert that they are actually numbers
before trying to add them together.
We're pretty good at mindsets like that.
And we've never once implemented
any notion of checking that
our callbacks are behaving
the way that we expect.
And so, we run into this problem.
So this is how I would say it.
If you've ever had a callback in any
JavaScript program that you've ever
written and
you do not have a solution in place for
every single one of these trust issues.
That program currently has a bug even
if you've not been bitten by it yet.
This is a fundamental deficiency in
callback design is that the callback
itself does not have a solution,
there is no solution for
this part of callback hell,
this inversion of control trust issue.
Our particular one was not too many
times but there are quite a few others.
So if you wanna scramble and solve every
one of those you might be able to come up
with an ad hoc solution for every single
one of those impacts that one solution and
then you gonna start thinking I've got
hundreds of callbacks in my program.
We're gonna have to solve this
ad hoc in every single place.
All of a sudden your codebase
just Boolean by three or four x.
It's completely unmaintainable and
impractical at this point.
We're gonna need something better,
that's designed specifically to
solve all these trust issues.